docs/src/content/docs/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Install and run Anonamoose in under five minutes.
---

Get Anonamoose running locally and make your first redacted request.

:::caution[Licence]
Anonamoose is licensed under [Business Source License 1.1](/licence/). **Free for personal and non-commercial use.** If you or your organisation are using Anonamoose for any commercial purpose — including internal business use, offering as a hosted service, or as part of a revenue-generating product — you need a commercial licence. Contact [ben@bridgepoint.co.nz](mailto:ben@bridgepoint.co.nz).
:::

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- npm or yarn
- (Optional) Docker & Docker Compose

## Install

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Bridge-Point/anonamoose.git
cd anonamoose
npm install
```

## Configure

Create a `.env` file in the project root:

```bash
# Protects the management API and admin panel
API_TOKEN=your-api-token

# Optional — provide if proxying to LLM APIs
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
```

## Run

```bash
# Development (auto-reload)
npm run dev

# Production
npm run build
npm start
```

The proxy starts on port **3000** and the management API on port **3001** by default.

## Try it out

### Direct redaction

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/v1/redact \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"text": "Call John Smith at john@example.com or 0412 345 678"}'
```

The response returns the redacted text, a session ID for rehydration, and a list of detections.

### Proxy to OpenAI

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer sk-your-openai-key" \
  -d '{
    "model": "gpt-4",
    "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Summarize this: John Smith (john@acme.com) called about order #12345"}]
  }'
```

PII is redacted before reaching OpenAI and rehydrated in the response automatically.

## Next steps

- [Installation](/guides/installation/) — detailed install options including Docker
- [Configuration](/guides/configuration/) — all environment variables and options
- [Dictionary](/guides/dictionary/) — add guaranteed redaction terms
- [How It Works](/concepts/how-it-works/) — understand the architecture

Commit message:

Add BridgePoint references to README and docs
BridgePoint (bridgepoint.co.nz) is the company that built, maintains,
and owns Anonamoose. All commercial licences are issued through
BridgePoint. Updated README, licence page, What is Anonamoose page,
and Getting Started caution box.

docs/src/content/docs/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Install and run Anonamoose in under five minutes.
---

Get Anonamoose running locally and make your first redacted request.

:::caution[Licence]
Anonamoose is built by [BridgePoint](https://bridgepoint.co.nz) and licensed under [Business Source License 1.1](/licence/). **Free for personal and non-commercial use.** If you or your organisation are using Anonamoose for any commercial purpose — including internal business use, offering as a hosted service, or as part of a revenue-generating product — you need a commercial licence from BridgePoint. Contact [ben@bridgepoint.co.nz](mailto:ben@bridgepoint.co.nz).
:::

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- npm or yarn
- (Optional) Docker & Docker Compose

## Install

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Bridge-Point/anonamoose.git
cd anonamoose
npm install
```

## Configure

Create a `.env` file in the project root:

```bash
# Protects the management API and admin panel
API_TOKEN=your-api-token

# Optional — provide if proxying to LLM APIs
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
```

## Run

```bash
# Development (auto-reload)
npm run dev

# Production
npm run build
npm start
```

The proxy starts on port **3000** and the management API on port **3001** by default.

## Try it out

### Direct redaction

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/v1/redact \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"text": "Call John Smith at john@example.com or 0412 345 678"}'
```

The response returns the redacted text, a session ID for rehydration, and a list of detections.

### Proxy to OpenAI

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer sk-your-openai-key" \
  -d '{
    "model": "gpt-4",
    "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Summarize this: John Smith (john@acme.com) called about order #12345"}]
  }'
```

PII is redacted before reaching OpenAI and rehydrated in the response automatically.

## Next steps

- [Installation](/guides/installation/) — detailed install options including Docker
- [Configuration](/guides/configuration/) — all environment variables and options
- [Dictionary](/guides/dictionary/) — add guaranteed redaction terms
- [How It Works](/concepts/how-it-works/) — understand the architecture
