docs/src/content/docs/reference/environment-variables.md, before:

---
title: Environment Variables
description: All environment variables supported by Anonamoose.
---

## Server

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `PORT` | No | `3000` | Port for the proxy server (OpenAI/Anthropic passthrough and direct redaction) |
| `MGMT_PORT` | No | `3001` | Port for the management API (dictionary, sessions, stats) |

## LLM API Keys

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | No | — | OpenAI API key. Only needed if using the `/v1/chat/completions` proxy endpoint. Clients can also pass their own key via the `Authorization` header. |
| `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` | No | — | Anthropic API key. Only needed if using the `/v1/messages` proxy endpoint. Clients can also pass their own key via the `Authorization` header. |

## Storage

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `REDIS_URL` | No | — | Redis connection URL (e.g. `redis://localhost:6379`). When set, sessions are stored in Redis with automatic TTL expiry. When not set, sessions are stored in-memory and lost on restart. |

## Authentication

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `API_TOKEN` | No | — | Bearer token for management API endpoints (`/api/v1/*`). When not set, management endpoints are unauthenticated. |
| `STATS_TOKEN` | No* | — | Bearer token for the stats endpoint and dashboard. *Must be set to access `/api/v1/stats`. |

## Docker Compose

When using Docker Compose, these are set automatically by the compose file:

| Variable | Value | Description |
|----------|-------|-------------|
| `NODE_ENV` | `production` | Node.js environment |
| `REDIS_URL` | `redis://redis:6379` | Points to the Redis container |

All other variables should be set in a `.env` file at the project root, which Docker Compose reads automatically.

Commit message:

Update docs site for four-layer pipeline, admin panel, SQLite, and add docs links to UI
- Rewrite pipeline docs: three-layer → four-layer (Dictionary → NER → Regex → Names)
- Rewrite dashboard docs to cover full admin panel (logs, inspector, dictionary, settings)
- Update all guides for SQLite storage, API_TOKEN auth, Coolify deployment
- Add new API endpoints to reference (logs, redactions, dictionary/flush, settings)
- Add path format docs (with and without /v1 prefix)
- Add docs links to dashboard header and admin panel header
- Include all pending changes: names layer, SQLite backend, runtime settings, admin panel

docs/src/content/docs/reference/environment-variables.md, after:

---
title: Environment Variables
description: All environment variables supported by Anonamoose.
---

## Server

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `PORT` | No | `3000` | Port for the proxy server (OpenAI/Anthropic passthrough, direct redaction, and management API) |
| `MGMT_PORT` | No | `3001` | Port for the management API (dictionary, sessions, stats, settings) |

## LLM API Keys

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | No | — | OpenAI API key. Only needed if using the proxy endpoint without a client-provided key. Clients can pass their own key via the `Authorization` header. |
| `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` | No | — | Anthropic API key. Only needed if using the proxy endpoint without a client-provided key. Clients can pass their own key via the `Authorization` header. |

## Storage

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `ANONAMOOSE_DB_PATH` | No | `./data/anonamoose.db` | Path to the SQLite database file. Sessions and settings are stored here with automatic TTL expiry. The directory is created automatically if it doesn't exist. |

## Authentication

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `API_TOKEN` | No | — | Bearer token for management API endpoints (`/api/v1/*`) and the admin panel. When not set, management endpoints are unauthenticated. This is the primary authentication token. |
| `STATS_TOKEN` | No | — | Alternative bearer token accepted for stats endpoints. Useful for giving the dashboard stats access without sharing the full `API_TOKEN`. |

## Docker Compose

When using Docker Compose, these are set automatically by the compose file:

| Variable | Value | Description |
|----------|-------|-------------|
| `NODE_ENV` | `production` | Node.js environment |

All other variables should be set in a `.env` file at the project root, which Docker Compose reads automatically.
