docs/src/content/docs/guides/configuration.md, before:

---
title: Configuration
description: Configure Anonamoose via environment variables and runtime settings.
---

Anonamoose is configured through environment variables (for server setup) and runtime settings (for redaction behavior).

## Environment variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `PORT` | `3000` | Proxy server port |
| `MGMT_PORT` | `3001` | Management API port |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | — | OpenAI API key for proxy passthrough |
| `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` | — | Anthropic API key for proxy passthrough |
| `ANONAMOOSE_DB_PATH` | `./data/anonamoose.db` | SQLite database path. Sessions and settings are stored here. |
| `API_TOKEN` | — | Bearer token for management API and admin panel authentication. If unset, management endpoints are unauthenticated. |
| `STATS_TOKEN` | — | Alternative bearer token accepted for stats endpoints only. |

## Redaction pipeline settings

Pipeline settings are stored in the SQLite database and can be changed at runtime via the [Settings API](/reference/api/#settings) or the [Admin Panel](/guides/dashboard/#settings). Defaults are seeded on first boot:

| Setting | Default | Description |
|---------|---------|-------------|
| `enableDictionary` | `true` | Enable dictionary-based guaranteed redaction |
| `enableNER` | `true` | Enable transformer NER detection (Local AI) |
| `enableRegex` | `true` | Enable regex pattern detection |
| `enableNames` | `true` | Enable name-list detection |
| `nerModel` | `Xenova/bert-base-NER` | HuggingFace model ID for NER |
| `nerMinConfidence` | `0.6` | Minimum NER confidence threshold |
| `tokenizePlaceholders` | `true` | Use PUA token placeholders instead of descriptive labels |
| `placeholderPrefix` | `\uE000` | Unicode PUA prefix for tokens |
| `placeholderSuffix` | `\uE001` | Unicode PUA suffix for tokens |

Settings persist across restarts and can be modified without redeploying.

## Storage

Sessions are stored in **SQLite** and persist across restarts. The database is created automatically at the configured path (default `./data/anonamoose.db`).

Sessions have a default TTL of 1 hour (3600 seconds). You can extend individual sessions via the API.

## Authentication

### Management API & Admin Panel (`API_TOKEN`)

When `API_TOKEN` is set, all `/api/v1/*` endpoints (except public stats) and the admin panel require authentication:

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer your-api-token" \
  http://localhost:3000/api/v1/dictionary
```

When `API_TOKEN` is not set, management endpoints are open (suitable for development).

### Stats (`STATS_TOKEN`)

The `STATS_TOKEN` is an alternative token accepted specifically for the stats endpoint. This is useful when you want to give the dashboard access to stats without sharing the full management `API_TOKEN`.

Commit message:

Add locale setting to filter regex patterns by region
When set to AU, NZ, or UK, only universal patterns and region-specific
patterns run, reducing false positives from other regions. Default is
null (all patterns run, preserving existing behavior).

docs/src/content/docs/guides/configuration.md, after:

---
title: Configuration
description: Configure Anonamoose via environment variables and runtime settings.
---

Anonamoose is configured through environment variables (for server setup) and runtime settings (for redaction behavior).

## Environment variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `PORT` | `3000` | Proxy server port |
| `MGMT_PORT` | `3001` | Management API port |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | — | OpenAI API key for proxy passthrough |
| `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` | — | Anthropic API key for proxy passthrough |
| `ANONAMOOSE_DB_PATH` | `./data/anonamoose.db` | SQLite database path. Sessions and settings are stored here. |
| `API_TOKEN` | — | Bearer token for management API and admin panel authentication. If unset, management endpoints are unauthenticated. |
| `STATS_TOKEN` | — | Alternative bearer token accepted for stats endpoints only. |

## Redaction pipeline settings

Pipeline settings are stored in the SQLite database and can be changed at runtime via the [Settings API](/reference/api/#settings) or the [Admin Panel](/guides/dashboard/#settings). Defaults are seeded on first boot:

| Setting | Default | Description |
|---------|---------|-------------|
| `enableDictionary` | `true` | Enable dictionary-based guaranteed redaction |
| `enableNER` | `true` | Enable transformer NER detection (Local AI) |
| `enableRegex` | `true` | Enable regex pattern detection |
| `enableNames` | `true` | Enable name-list detection |
| `nerModel` | `Xenova/bert-base-NER` | HuggingFace model ID for NER |
| `nerMinConfidence` | `0.6` | Minimum NER confidence threshold |
| `locale` | `null` | Regex pattern region filter (`AU`, `NZ`, `UK`, or `null` for all) |
| `tokenizePlaceholders` | `true` | Use PUA token placeholders instead of descriptive labels |
| `placeholderPrefix` | `\uE000` | Unicode PUA prefix for tokens |
| `placeholderSuffix` | `\uE001` | Unicode PUA suffix for tokens |

Settings persist across restarts and can be modified without redeploying.

## Storage

Sessions are stored in **SQLite** and persist across restarts. The database is created automatically at the configured path (default `./data/anonamoose.db`).

Sessions have a default TTL of 1 hour (3600 seconds). You can extend individual sessions via the API.

## Authentication

### Management API & Admin Panel (`API_TOKEN`)

When `API_TOKEN` is set, all `/api/v1/*` endpoints (except public stats) and the admin panel require authentication:

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer your-api-token" \
  http://localhost:3000/api/v1/dictionary
```

When `API_TOKEN` is not set, management endpoints are open (suitable for development).

### Stats (`STATS_TOKEN`)

The `STATS_TOKEN` is an alternative token accepted specifically for the stats endpoint. This is useful when you want to give the dashboard access to stats without sharing the full management `API_TOKEN`.
